= Tired of wrestling with server provisioning?[*]  Sumo!

\* Currently only Ubuntu on EC2 is implemented.

Sumo's focus is on launching and working with one cloud computing node/instance.

Configure multiple Chef roles (ooh, aah, wow) defined in multiple Chef
(version 0.8) repositories (mine, yours, local (Sumo's)).  Example:

    $ sumo launch mine:ooh,yours:aah,wow

Sumo comes packaged with ony one Chef recipe - openvpn.
For those unfortunate to have a "big-brother" snooping, the following should
just-work:

    $ sumo launch openvpn --access_key_id: <aws_id> --access_secret_key: <aws_key>

# TODO Then what do you do if you are on linux, Mac, Windows?

You can manage multiple instances via by running sumo multiple times.
Please log reproducible bugs in the github 
TODO {issue tracker}[url]

== Features

Commands

# TODO     sumo help

# TODO      Instance management commands
        sumo launch [ --config </path/config.json> ]
        sumo terminate [ <fqdn> | <instance_id> ]
        sumo role [ <instance_id> ] [ role_a,role_b,... ]

# TODO      Storage management commands
        sumo attach
        sumo create
        sumo delete
        sumo detach

# TODO      Network management commands
        sumo network <dns>,<ip>,<hostname>
        sumo hostname <fqdn-text> 
        sumo ip <ipv4-address> 
        sumo dns <dns-ipv4 | dns-fqdn>,... 

# TODO      Interaction commands
        sumo shell [ <fqdn> | <instance_id> ]

# TODO      Reporting commands
        sumo describe [ all | [ volumes, instances, network ] ]
        sumo log [ all | [ volumes, instances, network ] ]

== Default Chef repositories

~/.sumo/cookbook
{git://github.com/opscode/cookbooks.git}[http://github.com/opscode/cookbooks]
{git://github.com/37signals/37s_cookbooks.git}[http://github.com/37signals/37s_cookbooks]

Additional default repositories can be added to ~/.sumo/config.yaml

==== Example:

   myrepo: git://github.com/myaccount/mycookbook.git

A role, say ubeauty, from this repository is passed to Sumo as:

   sumo launch myrepo:ubeauty

If instead you had added the ubeauty Chef recipe to ~/.sumo/cookbooks:

   sumo launch ubeauty

== Setup

=== User

You should install from Github until the 1.0 release.

    sudo gem install adamwiggins-sumo --source http://gems.github.com
# TODO    $ sudo gem install sumo --source=http://gemcutter.org

Or

# TODO    $ sudo rip install sumo

Dependencies:
-------------
  * amazon-ec2
  * thor

Sumo Configuration:
===================
Amazon Web Services
-------------------
    $ rake sumo:config:aws  # default vendor

Edit generated defaults in, ~/.sumo/config_aws.yml:

    ---
    os_vendor: ubuntu | ...                                          # TODO required
    access_key_id: <access_key_id>                                   # required
    access_secret_key: <secret_access_key>                           # required
    launch_count: 1                                                  # TODO default
    ami: ami-ed46a784                                                # default
    user: root                                                       # default
    availability_zone: us-east-1b                                    # default
    file: "~/.sumo/cookbook"                                         # TODO default
    37s: git://github.com/37signals/37s-cookbooks.git                # TODO default
    opscode: git://github.com/opscode/cookbooks.git                  # TODO default
    enable_submodules: true                                          # TODO redundant if we can access multiple Chef repos
    private_chef_repo: true                                          # TODO redundant if we fall back to private connection once public fails

=== Developer

# TODO    $ sudo gem install sumo --source=http://gemcutter.org
Or
# TODO    $ sudo rip install sumo

Dependencies:
-------------
  * amazon-ec2
  * thor
  * rr
  * diff-lcs

# TODO  Package Manager Agnostic:
    sudo gem install
    sudo rip
    sudo gem bundler

# TODO  Load Path Manager Agnostic:

== Details
=== Chef Features


=== AWS Features

Implemented operating system vendor values (case insensitive):
   * Until the 1.0 release, see this {listing}[wiki_url_here].

Implemented AMI values
   * Until the 1.0 release, see this {listing}[wiki_url_here].

Sumo creates its own keypair named sumo, which is stored in ~/.sumo/keypair.pem.
Amazon doesn't let you upload your own ssh public key, which is lame, so this
is the best option for making the launch-and-connect process a single step.

It will also create an Amazon security group called sumo, so that it can lower
the firewall for services you configure via cookbook roles.

If you run any production machines from your EC2 account, I recommend setting
up a separate account for use with Sumo.  It does not prompt for confirmation
when terminating an instance or differentiate between instances started by it
vs. instances started by other tools.

=== Eatures[*]

* An eature is a feature with an f-off ;)

Sumo is not a cloud management tool, a cluster management tool, a monitor tool,
or anything more than a way to get an instance up right quick.
If you're looking for a way to manage a cluster of production instances, try
one of these fine services and tools.

Cloud Management Service Providers
* Engine Yard Cloud
* RightScale
* Ylastic

Cloud Management Libraries
* Cloudkick
* Fog
* Pool Party

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests

* Fork the project on Github:
    git clone git://github.com/adamwiggins/sumo.git
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important.  Feature tests/specs help alert
  us if we break the expected behavior in a future version.  Buggy behavior
  tests/specs help guard against the same buggy behavior being reintroduced.
* Commit, do not mess with the rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version
  in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send in a pull request with your commits. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Examples
=== Role installation with Chef

The launch command takes an argument, which is a server role (from
roles/#{role}.json inside your cookbooks repo):

    $ sumo launch redis
    ---> Launch instance...       i-b96c73d0 (1.3s)
    ---> Acquire hostname...      ec2-75-101-191-220.compute-1.amazonaws.com (36.1s)
    ---> Wait for ssh...          done (979.0s)
    ---> Bootstrap chef...        done (61.3s)
    ---> Setup redis...           done (11.9s)
    ---> Opening firewall...      ports 6379 (5.2s)

    Your instance is exporting the following resources:
      Redis: redis://:8452cdd98f428c972f08@ec2-75-101-191-220.compute-1.amazonaws.com:6379/0

=== Managing volumes

Create and attach a volume to your running instance:

   $ sumo create_volume
   ---> Create 5GB volume...     vol-8a9c6ae3 (1.1s)
   $ sumo volumes
   vol-8a9c6ae3    5GB  available
   $ sumo attach
   ---> Attach vol-8a9c6ae3 to i-bc32cbd4 as /dev/sdc1... done (0.6s)

Log in to format and mount the volume:

   $ sumo ssh
   root@ip-10-251-122-175:~# mkfs.ext3 /dev/sdc1
   mke2fs 1.41.4 (27-Jan-2009)
   Filesystem label=
   OS type: Linux
   Block size=4096 (log=2)
   ...
   $ mkdir /myvol
   $ mount /dev/sdc1 /myvol
   $ echo "I'm going to persist to a volume" > /myvol/hello.txt

To detach from a running instance (perhaps so you can attach elsewhere):

   $ sumo detach
   ---> Detach vol-8a9c6ae3...   done (0.6s)

Destroy it if you no longer want the data stored on it:

   $ sumo destroy_volume
   ---> Destroy volume...        done (0.8s)

== Meta

Created by Adam Wiggins

Patches contributed by Orion Henry, Blake Mizerany, Jesse Newland, Gert Goet,
and Tim Lossen

Released under the MIT License: http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php

http://github.com/adamwiggins/sumo

